# NICE Parsing Tool

This tool has been developed to process and parse the logs generated by the smart space simulator presented in https://github.com/silvestroveneruso/smart_space_model_based_simulation to fit the meta-model proposed in the related article (*NICE: The Native Iot-Centric Event log model for process mining*).

The parsed log follows the XML format and is structured as follows: the **EventLog** tag is the root and encloses the whole log. Inside, it contains three main elements, identified respectively by the tags:
1. **ObjectList.** This element contains a list of Objects. It mirrors the object-centric feature of OCEL which allows event logs to be represented with multiple case notions. 
In IoT-enhanced BPs, different Objects interact and an Event can involve a combination of Objects (e.g., users, locations). The Properties of Objects are represented as attributes, which can be updated by Context Events.

2. **DataSourceList.** This element contains a list of Data Sources available within the observed environment.
We distinguish between two types of data sources: *(i)* physical Data Sources, typically sensors, that monitor physical Properties, e.g, the opening of a door or the temperature; and *(ii)* digital Data Sources, like process-aware information systems (PAISs), recording digital Properties and Process Events.

3. **EventList.** This element contains a list of Events. There are three types of events: *IoTEvent, ContextEvent* and *ProcessEvent. IoTEvent* is used to represent low-level types of Events, such as raw sensor measurements, and, if relevant, mixed-level types of Events, such as the aggregation of lower-level *IoTEvents* into *actions*, i.e., atomic interactions with the environment or a part of it (e.g., sitting on a chair, opening the fridge). A *ContextEvent* represents a change in the value of a Property of an Object which impacts the execution of the process (e.g., influence a decision). It is related to an Object and the Property it updates, and contains this Property's new value. Finally, *ProcessEvent* is used to represent high-level types of Events, e.g., groups of human atomic interactions with the environment that are performed with a common goal. It represents an execution of a business activity (e.g., prepare dinner, register an order).

The details of the format can be found in the related paper *NICE: The Native Iot-Centric Event log model for process mining*.

## How to run the script
The Python script can be run with this command:
```
python parser.py [nUsers] [sensorsFile]
```
where **[nUsers]** is an integer associated with the number of virtual inhabitants used in the related synthetic log (e.g., 2), and **[sensorsFile]** is a text file with information related to the sensors available within the smart environment and their position. An example of such a file is available within the *Parsing Tool* folder in this repository.

The parsed log will appear in the same folder as the script, with the name *parsedLog.xml*.
